JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
In Syria's rebel-held city of
Aleppo, at least
27 are dead after an airstrike
that hit a
Doctors Without Borders
hospital, further
threatening a fragile
cease-fire.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Thursday:
As the presidential primaries
enter the final
stretch, we look at the race for
delegates
and preview next week's primary
in Indiana.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And backlash in
North Carolina
-- how the new state law
requiring people
to use bathrooms of their birth
gender has
set off a business boycott.
MIKE MOORE, Industry Consultant:
Our Series
A funding is several million
dollars, and
that money could be here in
North Carolina.
And we made a decision it's
going to Florida.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Death rained
down on Syria's
largest city today. At least 60
people were
killed, nearly half of them at a
hospital.
It was the starkest evidence yet
that a two-month-old
truce is now history.
Chaos in the darkness of Aleppo.
An airstrike
smashed this hospital supported
by the Red
Cross and Doctors Without
Borders in a rebel-held
section of the city, among the
dead, one of
the region's last remaining
pediatricians.
SAM TAYLOR, Doctors Without
Borders: This
was a place for women to go and
give birth.
This was a place for children to
go and get
specialist treatment. It's now a
pile of rubble.
HARI SREENIVASAN: After sunrise,
more strikes
hit a residential neighborhood,
and rescue
workers scrambled to pull a
young girl free.
MAN (through translator): Here
is a residential
area. They are striking at
residents. They
are no terrorists here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At the same
time, Syrian
state media reported at least
1,000 mortar
rounds and rockets were fired
into government-held
areas of Aleppo. The attacks
punctuate the
collapse of a cease-fire in the
country's
largest city.
The truce is also hanging by a
thread in Homs,
where an aid convoy was hit this
week. For
its part, Russia denied its
warplanes carried
out the hospital bombing in
Aleppo. Instead,
in Washington, a State
Department spokesman
said all signs point to the
Syrian military.
JOHN KIRBY, State Department
Spokesman: The
indications that we have now --
and, again,
this just happened -- are that
these were
-- that these strikes were
conducted by the
regime.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And in a
statement, Secretary
of State John Kerry insisted
Russia use its
influence on President Bashar
al-Assad to
stop the attacks.
The main Syrian opposition group
joined in,
from Turkey, blaming Moscow and
Damascus for
the resumption of fighting.
ANAS AL-ABDEH, President, Syrian
National
Coalition: The regime, along
with the Russians,
are burying the cessation of
hostilities by
committing crimes and massacres
across Syria.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And the U.N.'s
special envoy
for Syria, Staffan de Mistura,
emerged in
Geneva to say the cease-fire is
still alive,
but barely. He urged the United
States and
Russia to salvage the truce and
bring the
warring parties back to the
table.
STAFFAN DE MISTURA, Special
United Nations
Envoy for Syria: The Russian
Federation and
the U.S., as you remember, had a
very strong
initiative which produced
basically a miracle,
and that produced the feeling of
hope, unexpected
hope. We need to be urgently
revitalized.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was also
a dire warning
from the head of the U.N.'s
humanitarian task
force. He spoke of catastrophic
deterioration
in Aleppo.
MAN: The lifeline to hundreds of
thousands,
if not millions of people that
have had hopes
that things would really get
better now, that
lifeline may be broken.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Adding to the
warning, the
International Red Cross reported
stocks of
food and medicine in Aleppo will
run out soon,
and the resurgence of fighting
makes it impossible
to bring in more.
We will hear from Doctors
Without Borders
after the news summary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: There's
word that 16 U.S. military
personnel, including
a general, have been disciplined
over the
mistaken bombing of a hospital
in Afghanistan.
The facility in the city of
Kunduz was also
run by Doctors Without Borders.
The airstrike
last year left 42 people dead.
U.S. officials say the service
members received
administrative punishments, but
will not face
criminal charges. A full
Pentagon report is
expected tomorrow.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Vice President
Biden made
an unannounced visit to Iraq
today, hoping
to resolve a political crisis.
He touched
down in Baghdad on a mission to
urge Iraqi
leaders to set aside their
differences, and
focus on fighting Islamic State
militants.
The country's government has
been paralyzed
for weeks over corruption and
demands for
sweeping reforms.
JUDY WOODRUFF: North Korea has
failed again
in a bid to launch
intermediate-range missiles.
South Korean officials reported
two attempts
today. A similar launch earlier
this month
also failed. The weapons were
fired from near
Wonsan, and have the range to
reach U.S. bases
in Asia and the Pacific.
A United Nations spokesman
called today for
the launches to stop. And
Chinese President
Xi Jinping said his country will
not permit
war or chaos on the Korean
Peninsula.
HARI SREENIVASAN: President Xi's
government
is moving to crack down on
foreign nongovernmental
organizations with operations
inside China.
A law adopted today says they
must never endanger
Chinese unity, and will now be
closely monitored
by police. It also bans them
from recruiting
or fund-raising.
Chinese officials defended the
restrictions
at a news conference in Beijing.
MAN (through translator): There
are a minority
of foreign NGOs, that through
the means of
funds and some methods, will
manage to harm
China's national security
interests and some
other illegal criminal activity.
In this way,
strengthening control including
handling this
illegal contact, is something
that we should
also do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: U.S. and
European officials
have criticized the law as the
latest move
in a growing crackdown by the
ruling Communist
Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Volkswagen has
announced it's
setting aside nearly $9 billion
to buy back
or repair diesel-powered
vehicles that cheated
on emissions tests. Part of the
money would
cover a buy-back deal for diesel
owners in
the U.S. It could affect up to
500,000 cars
and trucks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A rout in tech
stocks carried
away Wall Street today. It began
earlier this
week when Apple reported its
first revenue
decline in 13 years. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 210 points to close
at 17830.
The Nasdaq fell nearly 58
points, and the
S&P 500 gave up 19.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Australia, new
statistics
show that strict gun control
measures have
led to a major decline in gun
murders. There
were 35 in 2014. That was down
nearly two-thirds
from 1996, even though the
population rose
sharply during that period.
Australia tightened
its laws after a mass shooting
20 years ago
today that left 35 dead in
Tasmania.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And in Utah's
Arches National
Park, the face of one of
America's national
treasures has been vandalized,
maybe permanently.
The etchings span five to six
feet across
a famous red rock arch, and may
be too deeply
cut to remove.
The park's superintendent says
graffiti and
other vandalism is a growing
problem.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
the rising toll, as leaders seek
a peace deal
in Syria; calculating the
delegate math ahead
of the last 10 presidential
primaries; an
economic backlash against North
Carolina's
LGBT bathroom law; and much
more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We return to
the bombing
of the hospital in the Syrian
town of Aleppo.
According to reports, 27 people
were killed.
With me now is Pablo Marco,
Middle East operations
manager for Doctors Without
Borders, which
supports the facility.
Pablo, you have probably been in
touch with
your colleagues on the ground
there. What's
the latest they're telling you?
PABLO MARCO, Middle East
Operations Manager,
Doctors Without Borders: Yes.
So, we are speaking with the
head of the hospital
just a couple of hours ago to go
the last
-- and he was telling us how all
these events
unfolded. He explained to us
that, 10:00 p.m.
yesterday, two barrel bombs fell
close to
the hospital.
Then a lot of wounded people
were driven to
the hospital. Directors were
waiting at the
gate of the hospitals to know
about the news
about the families. And it was
at that moment
that the third barrel bomb fell
at the entrance
of the hospital in the emergency
room, provoking
this massive killing of people.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It was
actually staged so
that the people would rush to
the hospital,
there would be more people there
for that
secondary attack?
PABLO MARCO: So, we cannot
ascertain it, but
all elements show this, that
this attack was,
as you say, staged to provoke
the maximum
number of citizens killed.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, tell me
what kind of
impact it means to not have this
facility
in this corner of the city.
PABLO MARCO: Well, there are
already very
few facilities working in
Aleppo.
We need to know around 95
percent of the doctors
in Aleppo have either fled or
they have been
killed by bombings already. So,
every single
facility that is destroyed or
doctor that is killed has a
massive impact.
This hospital was a reference
hospital for
pediatrics and, in addition, one
of the key
hospitals for internal medicine,
especially
for the (INAUDIBLE) so very,
very high impact,
for sure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, how many
people, roughly,
are treated in this facility,
and how long
are the wait lines, so to speak?
There's probably
not that many options for people
in that area.
PABLO MARCO: Yes, exactly,
exactly.
We were talking with the
director. He was
telling us that all the wounded
have been
taken to the hospitals, but, of
course, they
are absolutely overwhelmed, as
you can imagine.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And what does
it mean for
this hospital to be supported by
Doctors Without
Borders? What's your involvement
there?
PABLO MARCO: Yes.
So, we have been working with
them for at
least now three years. We have
been in Aleppo.
We were going to the hospital
every other
week, providing support in terms
of technical
advice (INAUDIBLE) medical
equipment.
In the last year, the hospital
was attacked
twice also with barrel bombings.
And at that
time, also, after the request
for support,
we provided new equipment to
restart the hospital.
And even until this week, we
were having direct
conversations and about
donations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what
happens now? Are
you sending in more doctors into
this hospital,
into this area?
PABLO MARCO: So, we will keep
supporting these
hospitals, if we are able to
make it happen,
to make it work again. It's not
very clear.
And we will keep supporting many
other hospitals
in Aleppo city. At the same
time, something
important we need to know is
that we think
it is really important that
there is an independent
investigation to clarify who has
been responsible
for this attack. And if this
attack has been
delivered, some elements can
point out.
We will -- there will be a
(INAUDIBLE) for
the resolution in the city
council in the
next days regarding the
protection of hospitals.
And this terrible event shows us
that this
resolution is more important now
in the city
than ever.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Are there any
other aid
agencies that are going to come
in and try
to fill that gap? Who else
supports this hospital?
What happens to all those people
in that region
who no longer have access to any
facilities?
PABLO MARCO: There's not much
more that anyone
can do until the attacks on the
hospital are
finished.
We need to understand that
anyone is really
afraid to go to Aleppo now.
Doctors, medical
staff, they are a target in this
war. Hundreds
of them have been killed.
Unfortunately, it's
really difficult to replace
those having been
killed in this attack yesterday.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Do you see
this as a pattern
now to target medical
facilities? It's not
just in Syria, but in other
parts of the world,
too.
PABLO MARCO: Yes, yes.
We are seeing it happening. You
were talking
just a few minutes ago about the
attack in
Afghanistan. We have had several
attacks in
Yemen also in the last month.
Especially the
most worrying in the situation
in Syria, where
there have been tens, if not
hundreds of attacks
against medical facilities. And
this trend
is even worsening in the last,
say, six months.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was that
other story
in the news today.
Does your organization have any
sort of a
response yet to the U.S.
government deciding
to discipline 16 members of the
U.S. military
in that tragedy that affected
the hospital
in Kunduz last year, the Doctors
Without Borders
hospital?
PABLO MARCO: Yes. Yes.
So, what I will say is that,
since this terrible
event happened, we're having --
asking the
U.S. government and to other
actors that we
think really that we need an
independent investigation
to clarify what has happened in
this attack.
The U.S. government has carried
out their
own investigation, but, of
course, it hasn't
been independent. And we keep
asking for this
investigation to happen.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Pablo Marco of
Doctors Without Borders, thanks
so much for
joining us tonight.
PABLO MARCO: Thank you to you.
Bye-bye.
JUDY WOODRUFF: An unlikely
character took
center stage on the campaign
trial today.
Former speaker of the House of
Representatives
John Boehner inserted himself
into the conversation.
The "NewsHour"'s John Yang
reports.
JOHN YANG: For Ted Cruz, it's
all about Indiana's
Republican primary next Tuesday,
and trying
to stop Donald Trump.
His challenge today, though,
came from former
House Speaker John Boehner. In
Congress, the
two repeatedly butted heads over
government
shutdowns and other issues. The
Stanford University
student newspaper reports
Boehner used unvarnished
language about Cruz during a
campus appearance.
MAN: What about Ted Cruz?
REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH), Former
Speaker of
the House: Lucifer in the flesh.
In Washington,
I have as many Democrat friends
as I have
Republican friends. I get along
with almost
everyone, but I have never
worked with a more
miserable son of a (EXPLETIVE
DELETED).
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
He allowed his inner Trump to
come out.
JOHN YANG: Cruz fired back,
casting Boehner
and Trump as creatures of the
Washington politics
he's been railing against.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
John Boehner in his remarks
described Donald
Trump as his texting and golfing
buddy. So,
if you want someone that's a
texting and golfing
buddy, if you're happy with John
Boehner as
speaker of the House, and you
want a president
like John Boehner, Donald Trump
is your man.
JOHN YANG: Trump was in Indiana,
hoping the
Hoosier State will get him even
closer to
the Republican nomination.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
We don't have a long way if I
can win in Indiana.
If I win, it's over. So, it's
over.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: If we win in
Indiana, it's over.
JOHN YANG: Trump got
endorsements today from
two House committee chairmen,
Florida's Jeff
Miller of the Veterans Affairs
committee,
and Pennsylvania's Bill Shuster
of the Transportation
panel.
But the front-runner took heat
for his foreign
policy address yesterday. In a
phone interview
with "The Today Show," he was
asked about
criticism that his plan to fight
the Islamic
State is light on details.
DONALD TRUMP: One of the big
tenets of my
speech yesterday was the fact
that I said,
and very, very strongly, that we
need unpredictability.
We need to be somewhat
unpredictable.
JOHN YANG: As for the Democrats,
Bernie Sanders
was in Oregon, which doesn't
vote until mid-May,
and Hillary Clinton was off the
trail.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After big wins on
Tuesday night,
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
have commanding
leads in their fight for the
presidential
nominations.
To make sense of the delegate
numbers and
how they shape the road ahead,
we are joined
by Domenico Montanaro, political
editor for
NPR.
And, Domenico, Welcome.
DOMENICO MONTANARO, Political
Editor, NPR:
Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's start
with the Democrats.
Where right now do Hillary
Clinton and Bernie
Sanders stand when it comes to
delegates?
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Well,
Hillary Clinton
is pretty far ahead after the
sweep in four
of the five contests on Tuesday
and after
her big win in New York.
You have got Hillary Clinton
with 2,165 delegates,
as you can see on the screen, to
Bernie Sanders
1,357. She is -- to put that in
context, she
is 91 percent of the way there
to the total,
to that magic number of 2,383
that she needs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you were
telling me, compare
that to where Barack Obama was,
then candidate
Barack Obama, in 2008 at this
point.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Yes. There
has been a
lot of talk of how close this
race this, and
certainly Bernie Sanders'
message has broken
through. He makes a very clear
and understandable
message. Hillary Clinton has had
to use some
of that message.
But when you look at the
numbers, Hillary
Clinton is up to 333 pledged
delegate lead.
This is just pledged delegates.
Take out all
those superdelegates, which
Sanders supporters
hate when we talk about those,
because they
feel like they can vote any way
they want.
But when you look at this number
here, 333,
Barack Obama never had a lead
that was higher
than 114. He wound up with a
69-pledged delegate
lead. Hillary Clinton's lead
right now with
333 in pledged delegates is
actually almost
100 points higher than where
Barack Obama
finished with pledged delegates
and superdelegates
combined.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, there are,
what, 14 contests
to go for the Democrats, 10
states, four territories,
including the District of
Columbia. How do
you see this playing out between
now and the
end of this?
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Well, here's
the thing.
Hillary Clinton, at this point,
barring something
extraordinary, is going to be
the Democratic
nominee. Because she's 91
percent of the way
there, she could lose every
remaining contest
by 20 points or more and still
win the majority
of pledged delegates. It makes
it very difficult.
When you factor in
superdelegates, it's over
80 percent, so very difficult
for Bernie Sanders
to do, barring something
extraordinary. Now,
when you look at the final
contests, she still
has not gotten to 2,383. She is
going to have
to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: There is the
possibility
that she could do it as early as
May 17, when
Oregon and Kentucky go, but that
would mean
that she would need another 120
or so superdelegates
to come out in favor of her.
There are 159 that are
uncommitted at that
point, 158, thereabouts. More
likely, she
is going to do it on June 7,
when California
votes, and that huge cache of
votes they have,
475 pledged, 548 total.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, well,
let's switch
over now to the Republicans,
because that's
where it gets interesting in
some of these
states coming up.
Where does it stand right now in
terms of
Donald Trump and his
competition?
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Well, you
can see Donald
Trump has 992 delegates, just
updated today
with some more delegates that
came out of
Pennsylvania, almost at 1,000
delegates.
He needs 1,237 for his magic
number. He's
over 80 percent of the way
there. He's really
cleaned up over the last couple
of weeks,
since New York, over 200
delegates for him,
just nine for John Kasich, only
three for
Ted Cruz.
Really kind of amazing. Ted Cruz
and John
Kasich, for all the talk of how
close this
race has been, they are both
mathematically
eliminated, eliminated from
winning a majority
of delegates on the first ballot
at the convention.
Who would have thought a
year-and-a-half ago,
we would be sitting here saying
that the only
Republican who has a chance of
being the nominee
on the first ballot at Cleveland
at the national
convention will be Donald Trump?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Their hopes lie
on a second
ballot, if it were to come to
that, and beyond.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: That's
right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's look at
their path
going ahead, 10 states to come
for the Republicans.
What does it look like for
delegates there?
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Yes.
Look, and the whole game here is
whether or
not Donald Trump can get to
1,237. And when
you look at some of these
states, big ones
coming up, Indiana, this is why
it's so important,
57 delegates coming up on
Tuesday, and this
is why that John Kasich/Ted Cruz
alliance
that sort of blew up within
hours of itself
is so important, to see whether
or not they
can keep Donald Trump below that
57 delegates,
or, you know, be able to win,
you know, half
the delegates or so, because if
Trump wins
57, then he only needs
40-something percent,
42 percent of all remaining
delegates.
He gets all 57 in Indiana, he's
at 36 percent
of all remaining delegates, and
everyone is
just going to be saying it's a
matter of time.
Now, of course, he still won't
be at 1,237.
And he is going to, depending...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: He could lose
some of these
other states coming up in May.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: He could
lose some of
these other states.
When you look at places like
Nebraska that
is coming up, Ted Cruz should
factor in and
do pretty well there, but it is
all going
to be about, how close does
Donald Trump get
to 1,237? If he's at 1,200, he's
at 1,150,
it is going to be difficult for
the delegates
at the national convention to
say they're
not going to give it to Donald
Trump.
I mean, two-thirds of
Republicans nationally
are saying that the nomination
should go to
whoever has the most votes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is incredibly
fascinating.
Domenico Montanaro, and you will
be with us
at the convention.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: I will.
Looking forward
to it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
DOMENICO MONTANARO: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now let's drill
down into that
Indiana primary next Tuesday,
even more important,
given the dance for delegates
which we just
heard about.
Brandon Smith of Indiana Public
Broadcasting
joins me from Indianapolis.
Brandon Smith, welcome.
So, we know the Indiana primary
is important.
Let's start with the
Republicans. What does
this race look like now between
Donald Trump,
Ted Cruz and John Kasich?
BRANDON SMITH, Indiana Public
Broadcasting:
I think the conventional wisdom
around here
was that this was a state that
Ted Cruz would
do very well in, but there
haven't been a
ton of polls done yet, but of
the few polls
we have seen, Donald Trump
consistently has
a lead in all of them.
The amount of the lead varies a
little bit,
but it's been between about 4
percent and
8 percent in every poll we have
seen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what is
driving the voters?
Do you get a sense of what
they're interested
in, why is Trump doing well?
BRANDON SMITH: Primarily, it's
economic issues
here in Indiana.
We have seen the state's
unemployment rate
drop significantly over the last
few years,
but wages really haven't
followed with that.
It's a heavy, intensive
manufacturing state,
one of the most
manufacturing-intensive in
the country.
And, certainly, Donald Trump --
when the news
that Carrier was leaving
Indiana, cutting
1,400 jobs, Donald Trump was out
in front
of that almost immediately, and
that, I think,
has resonated with voters here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is big air
conditioning
manufacturing company.
What about this pact or
alliance, if you will,
between Ted Cruz and John
Kasich, wherein
Cruz agreed to let Kasich have
Oregon and
New Mexico and John Kasich
agreed to step
aside in Indiana? How is that
playing out?
How are voters responding to it?
BRANDON SMITH: Well, it's
playing out.
We have seen Ted Cruz a lot in
this state.
He has blanketed Indiana really
over the last
several days, certainly even
before that news
came out and certainly
afterwards.
In terms of the voters, it's
been a bit of
a mixed bag. I have talked to
some Kasich
supporters who say they're now
all in for
Cruz, that anything to stop
Donald Trump is
what they're after. But there
have been some
Kasich supporters who have said,
I don't like
how this is going down, and they
-- they're
turning their votes to Donald
Trump, because
it plays into what Trump has
been saying,
that the whole system is crooked
and rigged.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Kasich
supporters not flocking,
necessarily, to Ted Cruz.
BRANDON SMITH: No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, by the way,
you still
have John Kasich in the state,
what, raising
money. And it's not that he's
disappeared
from Indiana.
BRANDON SMITH: Not quite.
He was scheduled for two public
events and
a fund-raiser this past Tuesday.
He canceled
both public events, but he did
come for the
fund-raiser.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about the
Bobby Knight
endorsement, that famous
basketball coach,
endorsement for Donald Trump?
What difference
is that making?
BRANDON SMITH: Well, there
certainly aren't
many bigger names in Indiana
than Bobby Knight,
but I'm not sure how much it's
actually going
to play into the race.
First of all, Trump already has
the lead,
but it was seen as more of a
quirk, I think,
than necessarily something
that's really going
to drive voters to change their
minds.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, let's
talk about
the Democrats now.
Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders,
I guess the
polls are a little bit closer
between them?
BRANDON SMITH: The polls are
just a little
bit closer. Hillary has had the
lead, but
it's been more in the two-,
three-, or four-point
range.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what's
driving that race?
BRANDON SMITH: The same sort of
issues, economics,
manufacturing. We -- Hillary
hasn't spent
a lot of time in the state,
really only one
day, this past Tuesday.
But when she was here, she spent
her time
in Northern Indiana visiting two
different
factories up there, a steel
company and a
vehicle manufacturer. So you can
tell that's
where she's focused and that's
where a lot
of voters are focused.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what about
Bernie Sanders?
What have you seen of him, what
kind of crowds,
what kind of interest in his
candidacy?
BRANDON SMITH: Well, certainly a
lot of interest.
He has visited two biggest
university campuses
so far, the two biggest in the
state, Purdue
and Indiana University, mostly
young people
at those crowds, huge crowds
certainly. And
he was getting them fired up, as
fired up
as any crowd you will see
outside of a Donald
Trump event.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Brandon
Smith, what about
in terms of organization, money?
Who has got
the state, would you say, better
wired for
their campaign?
BRANDON SMITH: That's tough to
say. Certainly,
in terms of money, the Cruz
campaign has spent
the most on the Republican side
and Hillary
ha spent the most on the
Democratic side.
And if you look at organization,
maybe Hillary
has been the best. But in terms
of statewide
organization, Donald Trump has
been fairly
good, which we haven't always
seen in a lot
of other states. But in terms of
working with
the press at least, they have
probably the
best.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Indiana is not a
state that's
used to getting a lot of
attention in the
primary period. How much
interest is there
in these primaries?
BRANDON SMITH: There's been a
ton.
As you just said, this is just
something that
Indiana isn't used to. We had it
in 2008 on
the Democratic side. It's been a
lot longer
than that that we have had it on
the Republican
side. And we don't even know
when the last
time both parties were
competitive in the
state in the same time.
So, you have seen it in the
crowds. You feel
it in the crowds, that they're
just so excited
to see any presidential
candidate actually
spending time in Indiana.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we're sure
all going
to be watching on Tuesday night.
Brandon Smith with Indiana
Public Broadcasting,
we thank you.
BRANDON SMITH: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
Justice Department's
new plan to help ex-convicts
reenter society;
a biologist who says we should
set aside half
the Earth for conservation; and
how to be
unapologetically black.
But, first, there's been no
letup in the anger,
battles and protests in North
Carolina over
its new LGBT bathroom law. The
fallout is
not just political, but
increasingly financial,
as the backlash among business
and companies
keeps growing.
Special correspondent Roben
Farzad filed this
report from North Carolina for
our weekly
series Making Sense, which airs
every Thursday.
ROBEN FARZAD: High Point Market,
the biannual
furniture trade show, is the
biggest in the
world, with almost 12 million
square feet
of show space.
MITCHELL GOLD, Manufacturer:
This is one of
our most interesting and
exciting new pieces.
This is the Sophia collection
with the Duke
chairs.
ROBEN FARZAD: Here,
manufacturers like Mitchell
Gold preview new products to
retailers and
designers, that is, if they show
up. Weeks
before market, the North
Carolina legislature
passed House Bill 2, directing
people to use
public bathrooms that match the
gender on
their birth certificate.
It also excludes gay and
transgender people
from state anti-discrimination
protections.
In response, some customers
boycotted High
Point Market.
MITCHELL GOLD: It's not just
that the attendance
is down. It's the buying power's
down. Williams-Sonoma,
who owns Pottery Barn and West
Elm, they're
not coming to market. And what I
have asked
people to do is, buycott,
B-U-Y-C-O-T-T, us
at the market, because we're a
company that
doesn't support this
legislation.
ROBEN FARZAD: The economic
stakes at High
Point are, well, high. According
to Duke University's
Lukas Brun, the market generates
over $5 billion
a year making it North
Carolina's biggest
money-maker.
LUKAS BRUN, Duke University: And
$600 million
out of that is from visitor and
tourism. And
so take 10 percent off of the
market, and
then suddenly you lose $60
million.
ROBEN FARZAD: Industry
consultant Mike Moore
had planned to be here four
days, but cut
his trip to just one night. He
thinks even
more firms will boycott the next
market in
the fall.
MIKE MOORE, Industry Consultant:
This happened
much too close to market. People
couldn't
pull out. Most people, their
goods for these
exhibits were already here. They
had already
arrived and were ready to be set
up into displays.
They signed their contract six
months ago.
And they paid in full when they
signed those
contracts. There was no reaction
time.
ROBEN FARZAD: Still, signs of
opposition to
HB2 were on display. Moore,
who's based in
Asheville, North Carolina, has
opted to start
a new firm out of state.
MIKE MOORE: Our Series A funding
is several
million dollars, and that money
could be here
in North Carolina. And we made a
decision
it's going to Florida. I don't
love Florida
particularly.
(LAUGHTER)
MIKE MOORE: I mean, I sweat the
whole time
I'm there, but North Carolina as
a whole is
not a progressive state. And
that's why I
unfortunately say it is the
money that will
make the difference.
ROBEN FARZAD: Of course, the
business backlash
to HB2 goes beyond High Point.
Almost 200
executives have called for a
repeal. PayPal
scrapped plans for a new
operations center
and 400 new jobs, while canceled
conventions
have cost the state some $8
million and counting.
And then there are the shows
that didn't go
on, from the Boss, to Cirque du
Soleil, to
Pearl Jam, and Ringo Starr.
HAROLD WEINBRECHT, Mayor of
Cary, North Carolina:
I was very much a Beatles fan,
and I was looking
forward to seeing Ringo Starr.
ROBEN FARZAD: But an even bigger
blow to mayor
Harold Weinbrecht of Cary, North
Carolina,
Deutsche Bank's decision to
freeze 250 new
jobs at this software
development center.
HAROLD WEINBRECHT: We have
rumors of other
companies looking at not coming
here, putting
jobs on hold in the future, and
that's the
biggest concern. Who's in the
pipeline that
we don't know about that had
Cary and someone
else in their minds, and now are
giving second
thought to that, well, maybe
that's not the
best place for us?
ROBEN FARZAD: State lawmakers
passed HB2 to
nullify a Charlotte ordinance
permitting people
to use public bathrooms based on
their gender
identity.
Dan Forest is North Carolina's
lieutenant
governor.
LT. GOV. DAN FOREST (R), North
Carolina: It
would allow any man to go into
any women's
restroom, girls' locker room,
women's shower,
girls' shower facility, and be
able to get
away with it. We have seen that
happen in
Washington state that has a
similar ordinance.
MAN: If we're not willing to
stand now, 20
years from now, my kids aren't
going to be
able to stand. They're going to
go to jail.
ROBEN FARZAD: So, Forest and
other backers
insist HB2 must be upheld for
safety's sake,
no matter what the cost.
LT. GOV. DAN FOREST: The life
and the protection
of one woman, one child related
to this is
so important, you can't put a
price tag on
it.
ROBEN FARZAD: Besides,
conservative lobbyist
Tami Fitzgerald says almost 400
companies
have signed a letter of support
for HB2. But
we could not find a firm to talk
to us.
TAMI FITZGERALD, Conservative
Lobbyist: The
press has intensely badgered
these people.
These businesses get bullied by
the other
side, and they get threatened,
and they just
don't want to go through the
hassle.
ROBEN FARZAD: North Carolinians
have mixed
views on HB2; 38 percent support
it in general,
but more than half believe
people should use
the bathroom of their birth.
BOB PAGE, Owner, Replacements
LTD.: This plays
out very well in the rural areas
of North
Carolina.
ROBEN FARZAD: Bob Page is the
owner of Greensboro-based
tableware retailer Replacements
LTD. He's
long championed LGBT rights and
has been vocal
in his opposition to HB2. But
his advocacy
has driven some patrons away.
BOB PAGE: We have had hundreds
of customers
who say they will no longer do
business with
us, one who voiced, you know,
about his Christianity,
and that he hoped that the
cesspool of sin
that San Francisco is, where our
brethren
gay and lesbians live, that he
hopes that
they will slide into the ocean
after a catastrophic
earthquake.
And I thought, you know, those
just don't
sound like very Christian views
to me.
ROBEN FARZAD: Page has a number
of transgender
employees who are directly
affected by HB2;
24-year-old Ty Little hasn't
used the men's
room since she was 17.
TY LITTLE, Replacements LTD.: I
remember,
specifically I was at a
bookstore, and I went
in. And someone saw me go in and
then mentioned
to a manager, and they
approached me about
it, and told me not to do that
in the future.
And so I -- it worries me a lot,
for my safety.
ROBEN FARZAD: Page hired
20-year-old college
student Payton McGarry part-time
after he
was fired from another position.
PAYTON MCGARRY, Replacements
LTD.: I have
lost three jobs because I'm a
transgender
man.
ROBEN FARZAD: McGarry has joined
a lawsuit
challenging the
constitutionality of HB2.
Tell me how this law affects
your day to day.
PAYTON MCGARRY: I can walk into
any business
now and they can say, oh, we
don't serve trans
people. Sorry.
The last time I have used the
women's bathroom
was in high school. And it got
to a point
where it was so bad, I was being
verbally
and physically harassed every
time I went
into a women's restroom, that
they had to
give me permission to use
faculty restrooms,
so I could avoid assault by my
female peers.
ROBEN FARZAD: Both critics and
defenders of
HB2 rallied in Raleigh when the
legislature
reconvened this week; 54
protesters were arrested.
But the law still stands and the
financial
fallout continues.
Back in High Point, organizers
say it will
be at least a week before
attendance numbers
are in and the effect of HB2 can
be assessed.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Roben Farzad
reporting from North Carolina.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On Capitol Hill
today, a group
of top senators unveiled a
bipartisan bill
JUDY WOODRUFF: On Capitol Hill
today, a group
of top senators unveiled a
bipartisan bill
to reform the nation's criminal
justice system.
Among other things, the
legislation would
reduce prison sentences for some
nonviolent
drug offenders, and create
programs to help
offenders reenter society. The
move comes
at the same time the Obama
administration
is pushing a series of criminal
justice initiatives.
Spearheading that effort is
Deputy Attorney
General Sally Yates, who joins
us now.
Deputy Attorney General Yates,
thank you for
being with us.
SALLY YATES, U.S. Deputy
Attorney General:
Well, thank you for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, tell us what
the thrust
of the administration's criminal
justice reform
efforts are. What are you trying
to fix?
SALLY YATES: Well, we're trying
to accomplish
a number of things.
First, with the sentencing
reform bill, we're
really trying to bring
proportionality back
to sentencing, and specifically
for lower-level
nonviolent drug offenders. And
then with our
Reentry Week this week, we're
really trying
to highlight the importance of
assuring that
those who are returning from
prison have just
those basic tools they need in
order to be
able to be successful.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what are some
examples
of that? What are some things
that they need
that they aren't getting right
now, most of
them?
SALLY YATES: Well, just imagine
right now
that you're leaving prison. You
may or may
not have a family to go back to.
Particularly
if you were incarcerated a long
way from where
your family lives, your wife may
have divorced
you at this point, so you may or
may not have
a family to go back to.
And you may or may not have had
a chance to
stay in touch with your children
during this
time as well. It's expensive for
people to
travel. So, you have got to find
a place to
live. Public housing is
difficult. Some public
housing operations will not
allow convicted
felons. Then you have got to
find a job. And
finding a job is really
difficult at all right
now, but just imagine if you
have to add convicted
felon to your resume.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, just to be
clear, you're
working just on prisoners in the
federal system?
Is that right?
SALLY YATES: Well, we're looking
at both.
We're trying to help both
prisoners that are
leaving the Federal Bureau of
Prisons, but
also working through our grant
program with
state facilities as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, it's a big
job.
SALLY YATES: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I mean, we're
talking a lot
of prisoners around the country.
SALLY YATES: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You said this
week, I believe,
our criminal justice system is
not equipped
to deal with what is
fundamentally a health
crisis.
What did you mean by that?
SALLY YATES: Well, I was
referring to mental
health there.
And there's one of the problems
that our law
enforcement officers have been
encountering.
There are a lot of people on the
street right
now that have serious mental
health issues.
Going back to the '70s, when
many of our mental
institutions were closed,
unfortunately, states
didn't pick up and provide the
kind of community
mental health care that's really
needed.
And that has just snowballed
over the decades.
And now we're in a situation
where mentally
ill people are encountering law
enforcement
and going into prisons and
getting -- ostensibly
getting treatment there, but
prisons really
aren't equipped to be providing
the kind of
mental health treatment that
most people need.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how do you
fix that? What
do you do about it?
SALLY YATES: Well, there are a
variety of
things.
With respect to mental health,
one of the
things that we're doing there
is, first of
all, trying to train our law
enforcement officers
in how to identify signs of
mental illness.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is before
these individuals
are arrested or get in trouble
in the first
place?
SALLY YATES: Before they're even
arrested,
exactly, and to be able to
divert them to
mental health services, instead
of necessarily
going to prison.
Then, even within our prisons,
we're providing
funding and training and trying,
when we do
have folks that are actually in
the prisons,
to make sure that we are
providing the kind
of mental health treatment that
they need.
But, really, diversion is the
key here, out
of the prison system to begin
with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you have a
sense of what
proportion, what percentage of
prisoners today
have mental health problems or
other emotional,
however you want to describe it,
issues?
SALLY YATES: You know, there are
varying estimates
out there, and I think it's
really hard to
know what the true figures are,
because some
prisons will only count those
people that
are so mentally ill that they
are a danger
to themselves or others while
they're in a
prison setting.
And that doesn't really
necessarily capture
the full scope of mental health
issues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you feel you
can make progress?
You mentioned working with
police, with corrections
officers. How do you make
progress in that
arena? Again, you're talking
about individuals
across the country in many
different settings,
local, state and federal.
SALLY YATES: Well, one of the
things that
we have done is started training
crisis response
teams for local law enforcement
agencies.
And that's a group of law
enforcement officers
within a police department that
are trained
to identify not only the signs
of mental illness,
but de-escalation strategies, so
that when
they encounter someone who is
mentally ill,
they can de-escalate the
situation and take
them to mental facilities.
Now, we can't train every single
law enforcement
officer, but we can have teams
that are available
in our law enforcement all over
the country.
So, when someone's out there on
the street
and they encounter this
individual, they can
then call out for one of their
crisis intervention
teams.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We mentioned
coming in today
from the Hill a bipartisan
senators announced
this revised proposal, criminal
reform proposal.
What's the administration's take
on that?
SALLY YATES: We are so
encouraged by this.
I haven't been in this town for
very long,
but one thing I have learned in
the relatively
short time that I have been here
is, there
is not much that has bipartisan
support. And
this has strong bipartisan
support from both
ends of the spectrum and in
between.
You know, the bill today now has
36 co-sponsors,
split evenly with Democrats and
Republicans.
And I think that's just a
reflection of the
recognition that the time has
come for us
to recalibrate our drug
sentencing for lower-level
nonviolent drug offenders.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, you know, as
I know you
know, Deputy Attorney General
Yates, that
there are conservatives in the
Senate and
elsewhere who are saying, if you
make a mistake,
if you let someone out early who
shouldn't
have been let out early, they
can go out and
commit a violent crime, they may
be susceptible
to doing that.
What's the answer for people
with that concern?
SALLY YATES: And that's why this
legislation
is really targeted at the
nonviolent drug
offenders.
But, look, any legislation is
compromise.
There are some who would like
this to go a
lot farther. There are others
who it goes
too far. We have worked really
hard with folks
on the Hill to try to find the
right balance
here.
Now, what we're trying to do is
to make sure
that the punishment fits the
crime and to
ensure that we are protecting
the public and
public safety comes first, but
that we're
not keeping people in prison for
longer than
necessary for public safety
purposes, because
that's not fair either.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you assure
-- finally,
how do you assure the American
people that
this is the right thing to do?
Because there
are still people who are wary of
how they
deal with, how they work
alongside individuals
who have done time.
SALLY YATES: Right.
Well, I can tell you, I'm a
career prosecutor.
I have been doing this for 27
years. And my
focus in all of this is first on
public safety,
but also on ensuring the
fairness of the criminal
justice system. That's
absolutely essential
for the public to have
confidence in their
criminal justice system.
And when individuals have paid
their debt
to society, and they have come
out into our
communities, I think all of us,
not just the
Justice Department, but all of
us have a responsibility
to give them just a fair shot at
being able
to live the kind of lives we
have.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sally Yates, the
deputy attorney
general of the United States,
thank you very
much.
SALLY YATES: My pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next:
Scientist and two-time
Pulitzer Prize-winning author
Edward O. Wilson
first gained fame for his study
of ants. Through
the years, he's moved from small
insects to
big ideas, and now a very big
one, one made
more urgent by the problems of
climate change.
Jeffrey Brown has our profile in
his second
report from Southern Alabama.
EDWARD O. WILSON, Biologist: I
was just a
12-, 13-year-old boy, and it was
just a wonderland
to me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Edward O. Wilson
spent his
formative years in Mobile,
Alabama, looking
for snakes and insects in the
surrounding
delta.
EDWARD O. WILSON: If I could, I
would just
do the same thing today that I
did then, but
it would look funny.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: The experience
would shape
him, as biologist, evolutionary
theorist,
naturalist, and at age 86
perhaps most important
to him now conservationist.
EDWARD O. WILSON: What is man?
Storyteller,
mythmaker, and destroyer of the
living world.
JEFFREY BROWN: His new book,
"Half Earth:
Our Planet's Fight For Life,"
takes on nothing
less than the survival of plant
and animal
life on earth.
EDWARD O. WILSON: Yearning to be
more master
than steward of the declining
planet.
JEFFREY BROWN: Wilson's solution
is in the
title, setting aside half the
Earth as natural
habitat.
We spoke beneath the old live
oak trees at
Fort Blakeley Historic Park,
where Wilson's
great-grandfather fought in one
of the last
battles of the Civil War.
Half Earth. Are you serious?
EDWARD O. WILSON: I'm serious. I
know it sounds
radical, but we must have it if
we're going
to save most of the species
remaining on Earth.
And it's easier to do than most
people might
think.
JEFFREY BROWN: It sounds
impossible. It sounds
for some people crazy.
EDWARD O. WILSON: I was just
going to use
the word insane.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
EDWARD O. WILSON: Yes, it sounds
that way,
because they envision cutting
the Earth into
two hemispheres, one for us and
one for the
other 10 million species. But,
no, we mean
giving 50 percent or setting it
aside, patches,
some large wilderness areas,
others far, far
smaller, in order to make that
amount of reserve
area.
JEFFREY BROWN: Your ideas on
this and what
should happen have gotten bigger
and bolder.
EDWARD O. WILSON: Well, they
have.
My alarm went from yellow to red
when I read
the papers authored by large
numbers of scientists
and team efforts that showed
just how far
off the goal the conservation
organizations
were, how -- all our efforts
around the world
in slowing down extinction
rates.
JEFFREY BROWN: One key to
Wilson's argument
is how little we know of life on
Earth, only
two million species identified
out of a total
probably closer to 10 million,
even as species
go extinct at 1,000 times the
normal rate,
thanks chiefly to human
population growth
and corresponding habitat loss.
Conservation efforts worldwide
have thus far
set aside a little more than 15
percent of
the Earth for habitat. Wilson
would triple
that.
EDWARD O. WILSON: We would be
taking a first
step towards securing enough
space and natural
habitat to preserve, by my
estimate, more
than 80 percent of the species
left. If we
don't do this, we're going to go
down to 50
percent or more in a fairly
short period of
time in this century.
JEFFREY BROWN: Wilson is
attempting such a
thing right here, to give
national protection,
either a park or wildlife refuge
status, to
parts of the Mobile-Tensaw River
Delta, one
of the most biologically diverse
areas in
North America.
There's opposition in this
conservative state.
But Wilson is not deterred.
EDWARD O. WILSON: I think it's a
moral thing
to do. I believe morality is
going to enter
very strongly into what I hope
will be a shift
of perception and precepts and
reasoning about
this, that we really should take
extra measures
to save the rest of life on
Earth.
And who are we, one species, to
wipe out a
majority of the species
remaining that live
with us on this planet just for
-- without
even thinking about it, for our
particular
selfish needs?
JEFFREY BROWN: Wilson
acknowledges that the
world's population will continue
to grow from
its current 7.3 billion to
around 11 billion,
before leveling out. But he
thinks advancements
in technology will help shrink
our ecological
footprint.
So what are the stakes?
EDWARD O. WILSON: The stakes are
the future
of life, the future of the
living part of
the environment.
Mind you, we are beginning to
make meaningful
progress toward controlling the
forces of
climate change and of pollution.
And the other
parts of the nonliving
environment that have
been causing a large part of the
destruction.
If we allow the living part of
the environment
to disappear, for me, it would
be by future
generations regarded as one of
the most catastrophic,
even evil periods in human
history, for our
descendants to look back and
say, they wiped
out half or more of all of the
rest of life
on Earth, the variety of life on
Earth.
JEFFREY BROWN: A thoroughly
depressing prospect.
But to spend a day with Edward
Wilson is anything
but depressing.
EDWARD O. WILSON: Science needs
to have a
goal and actually achieve that
goal. We really
want to see on the front page of
the newspaper
scientists announce cure for
cancer, or cure
for lung cancer, shall we say?
What galvanizes public support
and puts spirit
into it is to say, this is the
goal that we
must reach. Let's set that goal,
and let's
get there.
JEFFREY BROWN: From Fort
Blakeley Historic
Park outside Mobile, Alabama,
I'm Jeffrey
Brown for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, another
installment
in our Brief But Spectacular
series, where
we ask interesting people to
describe their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from Heben
Nigatu and Tracy
Clayton, the hosts of BuzzFeed
podcast "Another
Round," which covers everything
from race,
gender, pop culture, and more.
As Nigatu and Clayton explain,
their show
has carved out a new and
important space in
the growing podcast landscape.
HEBEN NIGATU, "Another Round":
We have good
sound effects. Give them your
air horn. Beautiful.
(LAUGHTER)
TRACY CLAYTON, "Another Round":
It's not so
much that we wanted to fill a
space. We wanted
to create a space that wasn't
there before.
HEBEN NIGATU: A lot of
podcasters tend to
come from the same places, same
universities,
same, like, NPR-style training,
so it all
kind of often tends to sound
uniform. And,
like, Ira Glass is our god.
TRACY CLAYTON: I saw a comic
once, a cartoon,
and it was, like, a foot race
between white
folks. You had a white person in
this lane
and then a black person in this
lane.
And it's like you have the same
start as everyone
else, blah, blah, blah, but in
the black person's
lane, there is like alligators
and barbed
wire. We have to be like the
right kind of
black for people to pay
attention to us.
We can't make white people too
uncomfortable
when we talk about race. And
that is exhausting.
It is exhausting to have to pick
and choose.
HEBEN NIGATU: I do not have the
energy for
that.
TRACY CLAYTON: Yes. Yes. We have
so much going
on.
HEBEN NIGATU: We have a life to
live.
Appealing to white people's
consciousness
has a rough history in America,
but appealing
to capitalism does well. Hence,
I like to
make the diversity argument
about larger markets,
untapped audiences. There are
swathes of people
you are not reaching. So, if you
are just
not here for the moral reason...
TRACY CLAYTON: Then be here for
the money.
HEBEN NIGATU: Yes.
TRACY CLAYTON: As black women,
we know what
it feels like to be overlooked
and ignored.
And we were finally like, hey,
we have the
microphone.
HEBEN NIGATU: We want this to be
a space,
all of it is on our terms.
TRACY CLAYTON: Yes. Yes.
HEBEN NIGATU: We can have
conversations with
people, like even like Hillary
Clinton, and
have it be on our terms.
TRACY CLAYTON: Ben Smith, our
editor in chief,
really encouraged us to ask her
for the things
that we really, really wanted to
know.
He was like, you will probably
never interview
her again. You're not trying to
make a best
friend, so who cares if she gets
uncomfortable?
She had to meet us where we
were. And we talked
to her the same way we talked to
everybody
else. We're like, you're in our
house.
HEBEN NIGATU: We didn't say
that.
TRACY CLAYTON: No, we didn't at
all.
It feels amazing to not have to
be someone's
diversity coach.
(CROSSTALK)
HEBEN NIGATU: Or just even like
filter all
your thoughts about culture
through the prism
of, like, one very specific
outlook.
TRACY CLAYTON: Yes, and just,
like, not having
to worry, like, what are white
people going
to think? Who cares?
HEBEN NIGATU: Who cares?
TRACY CLAYTON: If this show
doesn't make the
right sort of space for the
general white
person to listen to, they can go
literally
anywhere else and find...
(CROSSTALK)
HEBEN NIGATU: Like 97 percent of
podcasts.
You all got a lot of stuff.
TRACY CLAYTON: Yes. Yes.
HEBEN NIGATU: My name is Heben
Nigatu.
TRACY CLAYTON: I'm Tracy
Clayton.
HEBEN NIGATU: And this is our
Brief But Spectacular
take on...
TRACY CLAYTON: Being
unapologetically black.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
more of our
Brief But Spectacular videos
online at
PBS.org/NewsHour/brief.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tonight on
"Charlie Rose":
a conversation with U.S.
Attorney General
Loretta Lynch on reforms to help
ex-felons
reenter society, what we just
talked to Sally
Yates about.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Friday, we check in with Paul
Salopek,
the man walking across the
world.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
For all of us at the "NewsHour,"
thank you,
and good night.
For all of us at the "NewsHour,"
thank you,
and good night.